---
layout: archive
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
---

You can find my research papers on [my Google Scholar page](https://scholar.google.com.tr/citations?user=vbfCyB0AAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao)

[1. **H. Yetkin**, C. Lutz and D. J. Stilwell, “A decision-theoretic approach to acquire environmental information for improved subsea search performance”, Ocean Engineering (accepted)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0029801820303255)

###### This study addresses subsea search applications where an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) is tasked with finding the target density in a given search region within finite time. We assume that AUV is equipped with a side-scan sonar sensor that detects the targets at the sampled location. We consider that sensor performance is dependent on local environmental conditions (e.g., clutter density, sediment type) that vary throughout the search region, and we presume that environmental conditions are unknown or partially known. Due to uncertain and varying environmental conditions, resulting search performance is also uncertain and it varies by location. This paper specifically considers the cases where environmental information can be acquired either by a separate vehicle or by the same vehicle that performs the search task. Our main contribution is to formally derive a decision-theoretic cost function to compute the locations where the environmental information should be acquired so that the performance of the search task can be improved. For the cases where computing the optimal locations to sample the environment is computationally expensive, we offer an approximation approach that yields provable near-optimal paths. We show that our decision-theoretic cost function outperforms the information-maximization approach, which is often employed in similar applications.

[2. **H. Yetkin**, J. McMahon, N. Topin, A. Wolek, Z. Waters and D. J. Stilwell, “Online planning for unmanned vehicles performing information gathering tasks in large state spaces”, 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Robots and Systems (accepted)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8967898)

###### We present an anytime Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) algorithm to generate real-time, near-optimal search paths in large subsea environments. The MCTS planner continuously builds a tree of the search space until either the allowed time per move is reached or the budget constraint for the search mission is met. In order to improve the performance of the MCTS planner, we propose a novel heuristic action selection policy to determine the value of a leaf node. The proposed heuristic is tailored to problems where making a turn incurs a higher cost than moving straight, such as the case on autonomous underwater vehicles. Through extensive simulations, we show that our heuristic yields a significant performance improvement over a lawnmover path planner - a commonly employed approach in subsea search applications - and over a simple MCTS planner where actions are selected uniformly at random. In our numerical illustrations, we use a real data set abstracted from sonar measurements acquired from the Boston Harbor.

[3. B. Biggs, D. J. Stilwell, **H. Yetkin** and J. McMahon, “Performance guarantees for receding horizon search with terminal cost”, 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Robots and Systems (accepted)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8968202)

###### We present a novel method of using terminal costs in the construction of a receding horizon search path. We prove that the proposed method of constructing search paths provides a theoretical lower bound on the performance of the search path. Our result can be interpreted as ensuring that the receding horizon path performs no worse in expectation than a given sub-optimal search path. This result is especially practical for subsea applications where, due to use of side-scan sonar in search applications, search paths typically consist of parallel straight lines. Thus for subsea search applications, our approach ensures that expected performance is no worse than the usual subsea search path, and it might be much better. We demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method by planning search paths in simulation using real-world data that was acquired by an autonomous underwater vehicle during a subsea survey of Boston Harbor.

[4. J. McMahon, **H. Yetkin**, A. Wolek, Z. Waters and D. J. Stilwell, “Towards real-time search planning in subsea environments”, in 
Proceedings of IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Robotics and Automation. Vancouver, BC, CA, 2017](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8202142)

###### We address the challenge of computing search paths in real-time for subsea applications where the goal is to locate an unknown number of targets on the seafloor. Our approach maximizes a formal definition of search effectiveness given finite search effort. We account for false positive measurements and variation in the performance of the search sensor due to geographic variation of the seafloor. We compare near-optimal search paths that can be computed in real-time with optimal search paths for which real-time computation is infeasible. We show how sonar data acquired for locating targets at a specific location can also be used to characterize the performance of the search sonar at that location. Our approach is illustrated with numerical experiments where search paths are planned using sonar data previously acquired from Boston Harbor.

[5. **H. Yetkin**, C. Lutz and D. J. Stilwell, “Acquiring environmental information yields better anticipated search performance”, in Proceedings of IEEE/OCEANS. Monterey, CA, USA, 2016](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7761175)

###### This paper addresses the problem of finding an unknown number of stationary objects distributed in a bounded search domain within bounded time. We assume the search agent is equipped with a search sensor and an environmental characterization sensor, and that these sensors operate simultaneously. Our cost function accounts for false positives, false negatives and environmental uncertainty. We consider that environmental conditions affect the performance of the search sensor, and uncertainty in the environment causes the anticipated search performance to be different than the actual search performance. Our approach aims to minimize the deviation from actual search performance while maximizing the probability that our estimates on the number of objects will be correct.

[6. **H. Yetkin**, C. Lutz and D. J. Stilwell, “Utility based adaptive path planning for subsea search ”, in Proceedings of IEEE/OCEANS. Washington DC, USA, 2015](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7404367)

###### We present a decision-theoretic adaptive path planning approach to efficiently search for an unknown number of stationary objects distributed in a bounded search area subject to time or distance constraint. We find the optimal finite-length search trajectory by maximizing a decision-theoretic utility function, and we re-plan continually as new information is gathered. We assume that the performance of the search sensor varies with variations in the environment, and our planning approach incorporates stochastic predictions of the environment if available. Our work is inspired by subsea applications. We compare our approach with a naive mowing-the-law approach that is commonly used in subsea search. We also investigate how uncertain information affects search performance.

7. **H. Yetkin**, S, Kalouche, M. Vernier, G. Colvin, K. Redmill and U. Ozguner, “Gyroscopic stabilization of unmanned bicycle”, in Proceedings of IEEE American Control Conference. Portland, OR, USA, 2014
8. **H. Yetkin** and U. Ozguner, “Stabilizing control of an autonomous bicycle”, in Proceedings of IEEE Asian Control Conference. Istanbul, Turkey, 2013
